Welcome to Workbook 8.1.
I already went ahead and launched the Starter Project and I also ran the application and now our application
as it stands is not resilient because if the consumer were to make a request to retrieve a resource
with an ID of 1 to 3.
Our application fails, it sends back a status code of 500.
Now, if you go here, a status code of 500 means our server or our application encountered a situation
it does not know how to handle.
In this case, our application failed to throw an exception and it sent back a status code to 500.
Now our application, if it were resilient, it would be perfectly capable of handling a situation where
the consumer sends an ID that doesn't exist.
So the resource not existing should not be deemed our fault.
We should be sending back a status code of 400, which implies that it's the consumer's fault.
They made the bad request they need to fix their URI.
And we're going to do just that.
We need to set up some logic that can handle such scenarios.
All right.
Let's start with Task One tells us to create a new folder called Exception.
And inside the folder, create a no contact abstraction class.
So essentially we're creating our own custom checked exception.
Let's do just that.
Create a new folder right over here.
And we're going to create a no contact exception, a contact not found exception.
It's going to inherit from the exception class.
And by doing so, this becomes a custom checked exception that we can throw whatever a piece of logic
throws this checked exception.
Java's going to force us to try to run that code and catch the exception if the code fails.
So task two is to modify define index by ID function to throw the no contact exception.
So here inside of our service implementation.
So currently our find index by ID function.
If it can find the resource, it throws a runtime exception, no such element exception which implies
that our application didn't know how to handle the scenario and it sends back a 500 internal server
error along with the exception that we threw.
We don't want to throw a runtime exception over here.
What we're going to do is throw a checked exception that forces you to handle it.
No contact exception.
And here we need to specify that this function throws a checked exception.
So anyone that tries to call it needs to handle it.
And here we're getting an error.
Oh, forgot my new keyword because we're creating a new object of the contact exception class.
And so now this piece of logic is prone to throwing a checked exception.
So once again, we need to specify that this function may throw a no contact exception.
It needs to be handled accordingly.
Now, this is kind of annoying because now we have to go to the contact service interface and redefine
what our implementation needs to override.
This is really inconvenient, but bear with me in the next workbook we're going to look at a much better
method anyways.
I think we're missing one function.
Oh, this one over here.
And we'll update the interface here as well.
All right.
Now we've got to fix our code inside the controller.
Here.
We need to try to run the code.
And catch the exception if the code fails.
So in case there is a no contact exception that gets thrown.
Here.
We're catching the exception and we're going to return a new response entity.
The status code we send back.
Is going to be.
Let's see the status codes that we have at our disposal.
Which one do you think we should use?
I think 404 makes the most sense.
The server cannot find the resource you requested.
HTTP status dot not 404 not found.
All right.
We'll do the exact same thing here.
We will try to run this code.
And if an exception is thrown.
That means the consumer needs to fix their request.
They made a bad request, in which case we're going to return.
HTTP status dot not found.
So when a consumer receives an HTTP status of not found, they're going to automatically know, Oh,
I'm the one who made the mistake.
I need to be the one who fixes my request.
All right.
Doing the same thing over here.
No contact exception.
Now I know what you're thinking.
There has to be a better way.
I promise you there is.
But let's just do it this way for now.
Sometimes it's always good to do it the more fatiguing way, so that you can then fully appreciate the
more elegant features that Spring Boot offers.
So anyways, I think now we should be good to go.
Now we need to test our API using Postman First.
We need to create the following resources.
This is kind of fun.
So we will make a bunch of post requests because remember, post implies creating a resource inside
the body.
Don't forget to specify that we're sending over JSON.
First we will create.
A John Snow resource.
Boom.
It's been created.
Then we will create a the hound resource.
That was created as well.
Then we'll create a Tyrion Lannister resource that was created to let's just make sure everything is
well, let's make a get request on all.
Okay, this is perfect.
And the next step.
We already applied this test case.
We're good.
Let's request a resource and the Yuri will specify an ID that doesn't exist.
And perfect.
The server sends back a response of 404 not found.
This tells us it says right here the requested resource could now be found and it's telling us to fix
our request.
This was our fault as the consumer.
All right.
Let's make a put request on local hosts.
Slash contact.
Slash.
One, two, three.
And now we get a 400 bad request.
So we didn't actually set this up ourselves.
Spring Boot automatically knows that the consumer made a bad request because this does not match anything
we have in our controller.
Our put operation expects a request body gear.
We're not passing a request body.
So spring boot automatically sends a 400 bad request.
400, if you go here, means that the server cannot or will not process the request because there is
a client error, a malformed request in this case.
All right.
Now let's make a request that does include a body.
But we're going to specify an ID that does not exist.
We get a 404 not found and now let's make a delete request on slash.
One, two, three.
No need to include that.
Again, it cannot find the resource and it sends back a 404 not found.
Please fix your request.
Get an actual ID that's in the server.
All right, so take home messages.
When a client makes a bad request, we should be sending back 400 messages.
We shouldn't allow our application to fail.
These error responses should be reserved for actual internal server failures, not for when a consumer
isn't able to input the correct ID.